Let's go to everyone's
favorite topic of discussion.
I've already gotten some furrowed brows
hear that I wasn't going to
teach Vim in my course, for
good reasons,
it's a very polarizing subject, Vim.
So people either love it and
they will tell you everything about it,
or they hate it and they will tell
you how much they hate it and
there's really very few middle
ground positions to hold on them.
Yeah, Dare I says it's the most
polarizing text editor of all time,
I don't think that's even
controversial in and of itself to say.
So Vim has actually a very long and
very interesting history whereas like Nano
came from Pico and like that's really it,
like that's the whole history then came
from like there's like nine upstream
projects from like where have them came
from and it's kind of a windy path.
So it all started with
a project called ed, and
I'm told that it's said ee-dee,
you don't say ed,
that's offensive to people of yore,
[LAUGH] that's called ed,
which in and of itself came from
a different project called qed.
So ed was based on this older project
developed by a guy named Ken Thompson
at Bell Labs in 1969.
Again, a lot of the great ideas that we do
today in computing came from Bell Labs and
it is a line-oriented programing,
a line-oriented editor,
which is, for me, nonsensical.
I actually spent a decent amount of time
trying to figure out how to use it and
I cannot figure it out but
believe it or not, it's
actually available today.
So if I say ed.txt, so it's based on like
you do these like lines like one at a time
and then you can do you type something and
it'll give you back commands with like
question marks and stuff like that.
I don't know if this might as
well be ancient heiroglyphics
to me I'm probably gonna get someone text
me like I use ed for all my editing and
you're a terrible person for
not knowing how to probably, okay?
I don't even know, yeah, so
Ctrl+D will get you out of it right so
you can send it a cig quit,
luckily ed will respect that.
Did I even put anything?
No, I don't think I even saved the file,
so I literally do not know
how to use ed, okay?
So the thing about ed and the why ed
is the way it is it was invented at
a time when memory was very precious and
so
they couldn't keep like
entire text files in memory.
And frequently they were actually even
printing out what was being typed in so
they wanted to do one line at
a time because every bit of like,
screen space basically was precious,
right?
So that's why line editors are oriented
towards lines is because they didn't want
to be able to or they didn't want to have
to print everything out all at once.
Suffice to say that, that idea has cleanly
gone away there's no one that uses any
sort of line editor style anymore
because memory isn't such and
screen-space is not a resource
that we care about anymore.
So this is back in a time when ed was used
in a time when bits what you talked about
not kilobytes, not megabytes,
not gigabytes,
it was bits you were worried
about individual bits.
Okay, so from ed we got ex,
I think people say that ex and
might be E-X, I'm not really sure.
Ex was a line editor but
not nonsensical, right?
It was actually much easier to use
people like that, that got popular for
a long time.
It put on much nicer face on ed and
that's what people use for
a while and is well known.
I actually think if I go in here and
I say, ex textfile.txt.
It actually does, so ex is still around,
you can see I'm entering ex mode,
but if I type :visual.
It actually pops me now into them,
so ex is actually now using them,
so ex evolved into Vim and
it's actually now just a mode in Vim.
But it actually started with
the inverse where VI was a mode for ex,
it was the visual mode for the ex editor.
So from ex,
ex was evolved itself from a two previous
iterations called en and
and then we got ex.
And then eventually a guy
named I think Bill Joy
made a screen-oriented version of ex
called vi, which was visual mode for
ex, so it actually still used vi or
ex under the hood, it was just like a more
visual oriented representation but
vi was just a mode in ex.
So from there vi kinda became
the default that people
just started using vi to open ex and
directly in visual mode.
A guy named Tim Thompson
made a vi clone for
the Atari ST that then this guy named
Bram Moolenaar ported to the Amiga.
He made this Vi IMitation so V-I-M,
Vim, which was then later renamed
to Vi IMproved instead of Vi IMitate or
Vi IMitation and
it was just a bunch of quality of
life improvements on the original V.
So again if you're on Vi on Mac,
it's just running Vim,
so I frequently type vi textfile.txt, but
it's actually running vim, and
those are separate things but these days
it doesn't really matter because people
don't use vi anymore they just use them.
So that's probably like maybe about ten
minutes extra of history that you didn't
really need but I found it very
interesting and I wanted to share so
of how we got from like,
these crazy line editors to this like
modern tool that people still use,
like they're actually rewriting Vim now to
a new program called Neo Vim right and
so it's still very alive, very healthy.
People love it i a lot of the frontend
masters, instructors themselves use them
so it is full featured it works with like
React and JSX and all the latest stuff.